Now the second point is write operation now
this is a very important point. So, please
take a special care. So the first point is
let's say the memory has the value zero. This
means that Q is 0 Q Bar is one second point
is word line is 1 now why this is one because
we have to access this lines. Right third
point is bit and bit bar is 0 sorry bit
and bit bar is input. Now we have to write
into the memory.So this line should be the
input line. Now. The fourth point is because
it is input line. I have the control over
this line so I have made this bit bar to  ground
now your question.Is why I have made this
bit bar line as ground. So the answer for this
is you can note that Q Bar is one and this
is ground now bit bar is ground. Now there
would be a voltage difference. So this will
discharge now fifth point is voltage decreases.Now
when voltage is decreasing you can note here
this two transistor will be affected. Now.
The tricky part is fifth point is very tricky.Now
the tricky part is if voltage is less than
threshold voltage of M2.What will happen if
this is possible.This means that this would
be off if this is off then this would be on
so if M2 is off M1 would be on when M1 is on this means that the output is 1 so
you can note that Q was Zero but I have made
Q is equal to 1 now we have write successfully
in the memory. So let's take a quick recap.
The main part to change Q is equal to 0 to
Q equal to 1 was this forcing this bit bar
line to ground why we have to force because there
would be a voltage difference current will
flow voltage will decrease and voltage decreases
then threshold voltage of M2 transistor.Then
we are in profit why we are in profit because
we have successfully changed that M2 is off.
This means that  M1 is on when  M1 is on means
that it will get the value Q will get the
value of VDD so you will get the value
of VDD means Q is equal to 1 so we have changed
Q is equal to 0 to Q is equal to 1. Now the
third point was the design consideration.
Now this happens in the read operation. You
might have one question. Let's say Q is 0
and q bar is 1 So when pre charged capacitor
this means that VDD and 0 the voltage difference
capacitor will discharge.All right capacitor
will discharge that's right.But the problem
here is voltage is increasing here as well
as voltage is increasing here.Now. The question
is if voltage increases then what will happenif
voltage is greater than threshold voltage
of M4 what will happen M4 would be on
M4 is on then what will happen Q Bar
is 0 now Q is zero at the same time Q Bar
is also 0 because of this. Now this is the
problem. So you have to make sure that Voltage
is not greater.So this condition is not true.
So you have to make sure when there is a voltage
difference and capacitor discharge capacitor
discharge that's okay, that's cool, but it should
not the voltage here will increase as well
as the voltage here will increase you have
to make sure that the voltage here does not does not exceed the VTN of M4
if it exceeds the VTN of M4 what will
happen M4 would be on when M4 is on this means
that Q Bar is 0 Q Bar is 0 means Q Bar is
also 0 and Q is also 0 this means this is
the read's condition which is not true and
this will affect